README.md, before:

# Minecraft Mod Matrix

> _A smarter way to build Minecraft modpacks — find which mods are compatible across versions and loaders in seconds._

---

[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.10–3.12-blue?logo=python)](https://www.python.org/) [![Flask](https://img.shields.io/badge/Backend-Flask-000?logo=flask)](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/) [![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green.svg)](LICENSE) [![GitHub Workflow Status](https://github.com/Lord-ZuzurNC/3M-MinecraftModpackMatrix/actions/workflows/python-app.yml/badge.svg?event=push)](https://github.com/Lord-ZuzurNC/3M-MinecraftModpackMatrix/actions)

---

## 💡 Overview

Tired of checking **every single mod page** to see if they all support the same Minecraft version or loader?<br>
**Minecraft Mod Matrix (3M)** automates that for you.

Paste your Modrinth and CurseForge URLs, click **Analyze**, and get a beautiful table showing:

- ✅ Which mods are compatible
- ⚙️ Which versions and loaders they share
- 📊 Compatibility summary ribbons
- 💾 Exportable results in Markdown or CSV

---

## 🧩 Features

| Feature                     | Description                                                                      |
| --------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 🔍 **Smart Analysis**       | Automatically detects provider (CurseForge / Modrinth) and version-loader pairs. |
| 🧱 **Compatibility Ribbon** | Instantly shows if all mods share a common setup.                                |
| 🌓 **Theme Memory**         | Light/dark theme toggle — remembers your choice.                                 |
| 🧹 **Cache Management**     | Clear cached data with one click if results get stale.                           |
| ⚙️ **Filtering**            | Filter by game version or loader (Forge, Fabric, NeoForge, etc.).                |
| 📦 **Export**               | Save results as `mods-YYYYMMDD-HHMM.csv` or `.md`.                               |

---

## 🧰 Installation & Setup

### Requirements

- **Python 3.10 → 3.12** (tested)
- **Flask** + **Flask-CORS**
- (OPTIONAL) **CurseForge API key** (if you use cursforge mods)

### 1️⃣ Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Lord_ZuzurNC/3M-MinecraftModpackMatrix.git
cd 3M-MinecraftModpackMatrix
```

### 2️⃣ Configure Environment Variables

Create a .env file in the project root:

```bash
CF_API_KEY=your_curseforge_api_key_here
```

> You need to get the Cusrforge API from their [Studio](https://console.curseforge.com/) > API keys.<br>
> If you skip the API key, Modrinth mods will still analyze fine.

### 3️⃣ Install Dependencies

```bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate   # (Windows: venv\Scripts\activate)
python -m pip install --upgrade pip
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 4️⃣ Launch the Web App

```bash
python web.py
```

Then visit 👉 http://localhost:5000

---

## 🖱️ Usage Guide

1. Paste your Modrinth or CurseForge URLs (one per line).
2. Click **Analyze** to fetch mod info.
3. The table will show each mod’s:
   - Source icon ![Modrinth logo](static/mr.svg) Modrinth / ![Curseforge logo](static/cf.svg) CurseForge
   - Clickable mod name
   - Toggleable version/loader list
4. Filter results to narrow results.
5. Click **Export MD** or **Export CSV** to save the data.

💡 If you notice incomplete data or errors, click **Clear Cache** to refresh.

---

## 📷 Screenshot

![Screenshot of the app](docs/screenshot_themes.png)

---

## 🧾 Example Use Case

You’re building a modpack for Minecraft 1.20.1 and want to make sure all mods support NeoForge.<br>
Just paste their URLs, click Analyze, and Minecraft Mod Matrix will instantly show which ones align — no manual checking needed.

---

## ⚙️ Tech Stack

- Backend: Flask + Flask-CORS
- Frontend: Vanilla JS, HTML5, CSS3
- Cache: Local JSON files (auto-refreshed every 24h)
- Supported Providers: CurseForge, Modrinth

---

## 🧹 Troubleshooting

| Problem             | Solution                                                    |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| ❌ Missing mod info | Click Clear Cache, then Analyze again                       |
| 🌗 Theme resets     | Browser must allow local storage                            |
| 🧩 Invalid URLs     | Only official CurseForge / Modrinth mod pages are supported |

---

## 🚀 Planned Upgrades

| Planned Feature       | Description                                                                       |
| --------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 🌐 Hosted Instance    | Deploying a public version of the app for users who don’t want to run it locally. |
| 🐳 Docker Support     | Containerized version for quick self-hosting and one-command deployment.          |
| 🔗 Dependency Checker | Detects mod inter-dependencies and highlights potential conflicts.                |
| 🧾 Enhanced Exports   | Better exports for MC launchers — suggestions welcome!                            |
| ➕ Add more Loaders   | Adding more loaders (currently Forge, NeoForge, Fabric and Quilt)                 |

---

## ❤️ Contributing

Pull requests are welcome!<br>
Whether it’s new providers, UI polish, or better filtering logic — open an issue or PR to help improve Minecraft Mod Matrix.

Please read the (very short) [contributing guideline](CONTRIBUTING.md).

---

## 📜 License

Released under the [MIT License](LICENSE)<br>
© 2025 – Lord_ZuzurNC

Commit message:

Added a mention of usage of an AI to code this software

README.md, after:

> This software has been entirely developped using ChatGPT and many research on internet forums. This may have some unusual ways of coding. If you spot anything, do not hesitate to read through this README, [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md), [SECURITY](SECURITY.md) and create an issue to make it more human and secure.

# Minecraft Mod Matrix

> _A smarter way to build Minecraft modpacks — find which mods are compatible across versions and loaders in seconds._

---

[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.10–3.12-blue?logo=python)](https://www.python.org/) [![Flask](https://img.shields.io/badge/Backend-Flask-000?logo=flask)](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/) [![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green.svg)](LICENSE) [![GitHub Workflow Status](https://github.com/Lord-ZuzurNC/3M-MinecraftModpackMatrix/actions/workflows/python-app.yml/badge.svg?event=push)](https://github.com/Lord-ZuzurNC/3M-MinecraftModpackMatrix/actions)

---

## 💡 Overview

Tired of checking **every single mod page** to see if they all support the same Minecraft version or loader?<br>
**Minecraft Mod Matrix (3M)** automates that for you.

Paste your Modrinth and CurseForge URLs, click **Analyze**, and get a beautiful table showing:

- ✅ Which mods are compatible
- ⚙️ Which versions and loaders they share
- 📊 Compatibility summary ribbons
- 💾 Exportable results in Markdown or CSV

---

## 🧩 Features

| Feature                     | Description                                                                      |
| --------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 🔍 **Smart Analysis**       | Automatically detects provider (CurseForge / Modrinth) and version-loader pairs. |
| 🧱 **Compatibility Ribbon** | Instantly shows if all mods share a common setup.                                |
| 🌓 **Theme Memory**         | Light/dark theme toggle — remembers your choice.                                 |
| 🧹 **Cache Management**     | Clear cached data with one click if results get stale.                           |
| ⚙️ **Filtering**            | Filter by game version or loader (Forge, Fabric, NeoForge, etc.).                |
| 📦 **Export**               | Save results as `mods-YYYYMMDD-HHMM.csv` or `.md`.                               |

---

## 🧰 Installation & Setup

### Requirements

- **Python 3.10 → 3.12** (tested)
- **Flask** + **Flask-CORS**
- (OPTIONAL) **CurseForge API key** (if you use cursforge mods)

### 1️⃣ Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Lord_ZuzurNC/3M-MinecraftModpackMatrix.git
cd 3M-MinecraftModpackMatrix
```

### 2️⃣ Configure Environment Variables

Create a .env file in the project root:

```bash
CF_API_KEY=your_curseforge_api_key_here
```

> You need to get the Cusrforge API from their [Studio](https://console.curseforge.com/) > API keys.<br>
> If you skip the API key, Modrinth mods will still analyze fine.

### 3️⃣ Install Dependencies

```bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate   # (Windows: venv\Scripts\activate)
python -m pip install --upgrade pip
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 4️⃣ Launch the Web App

```bash
python web.py
```

Then visit 👉 http://localhost:5000

---

## 🖱️ Usage Guide

1. Paste your Modrinth or CurseForge URLs (one per line).
2. Click **Analyze** to fetch mod info.
3. The table will show each mod’s:
   - Source icon ![Modrinth logo](static/mr.svg) Modrinth / ![Curseforge logo](static/cf.svg) CurseForge
   - Clickable mod name
   - Toggleable version/loader list
4. Filter results to narrow results.
5. Click **Export MD** or **Export CSV** to save the data.

💡 If you notice incomplete data or errors, click **Clear Cache** to refresh.

---

## 📷 Screenshot

![Screenshot of the app](docs/screenshot_themes.png)

---

## 🧾 Example Use Case

You’re building a modpack for Minecraft 1.20.1 and want to make sure all mods support NeoForge.<br>
Just paste their URLs, click Analyze, and Minecraft Mod Matrix will instantly show which ones align — no manual checking needed.

---

## ⚙️ Tech Stack

- Backend: Flask + Flask-CORS
- Frontend: Vanilla JS, HTML5, CSS3
- Cache: Local JSON files (auto-refreshed every 24h)
- Supported Providers: CurseForge, Modrinth

---

## 🧹 Troubleshooting

| Problem             | Solution                                                    |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| ❌ Missing mod info | Click Clear Cache, then Analyze again                       |
| 🌗 Theme resets     | Browser must allow local storage                            |
| 🧩 Invalid URLs     | Only official CurseForge / Modrinth mod pages are supported |

---

## 🚀 Planned Upgrades

| Planned Feature       | Description                                                                       |
| --------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 🌐 Hosted Instance    | Deploying a public version of the app for users who don’t want to run it locally. |
| 🐳 Docker Support     | Containerized version for quick self-hosting and one-command deployment.          |
| 🔗 Dependency Checker | Detects mod inter-dependencies and highlights potential conflicts.                |
| 🧾 Enhanced Exports   | Better exports for MC launchers — suggestions welcome!                            |
| ➕ Add more Loaders   | Adding more loaders (currently Forge, NeoForge, Fabric and Quilt)                 |

---

## ❤️ Contributing

Pull requests are welcome!<br>
Whether it’s new providers, UI polish, or better filtering logic — open an issue or PR to help improve Minecraft Mod Matrix.

Please read the (very short) [contributing guideline](CONTRIBUTING.md).

---

## 📜 License

Released under the [MIT License](LICENSE)<br>
© 2025 – Lord_ZuzurNC
